hello there my name is Jay I'm one of
the expert teachers here at e2 language
I have an idea and I want to give you a
little quiz today my idea is that the
better you are able to identify
different word types in English that is
you can look at a paragraph and say
that's a noun that's a verb that's an
adjective
that's an adverb etc the better you're
going to perform on your English test
because the easier it will be for you to
read because you won't just be seeing
words and meaning you'll be seeing what
type of meaning the word is for example
which is incredibly helpful so what
we're going to do in this lesson is I'm
going to quiz you and please try to do
it and then at the end I'm going to
provide a solution for you to improve
your ability to identify work types
improve your reading improve your
speaking listening and writing so let's
take a look at this let's do a little
quiz can you identify different word
types in English so please get out of
pen
the total score will be out of 39 so you
need to tally or keep your score as you
go along you can pop it into the chat if
you like and first of all I'm just going
to remind you that of all the hundreds
of thousands of words in English there
are actually only eight types of words
do you know what they are for example
there are nouns pronouns verbs
adjectives adverbs prepositions
conjunctions and articles so although
there are I forget how many words there
are in English it's a bit of a debate
because what's a word and what's a form
of a word etc but nevertheless there are
eight types or categories of words all
right so what we're going to do first is
identify the nouns in this paragraph and
I'm going to give you 30 seconds and if
you want you can pause the video and
spend longer that's beside the point
but what I want you to do is to say okay
that's a noun that's an
that's a noun let me give you a little
hint as to what a noun is a noun is a
thing like paper or pencil or a watch
these are things they can also be
abstract things that you cannot touch or
taste or see or hear a smell for example
so that's my little hint so look at this
paragraph identify how many things or
how many nouns can you see in 30 seconds
you
okay and feel free to pause the video if
you need more time but let me go through
now and identify all of the nouns with
you so we have one here people that is a
noun that is a thing it's a plural noun
because there's more than one but that
is a thing game or games is a thing
cards board games this functions as one
single noun because it's a compound noun
there you go so we've got one two three
four so far what other things are there
more likely to stay mentally sharp in
later life is a noun
study is a noun those who regularly
played non-digital games of course we
saw that before that's a noun scored
better on ah here we go this is
interesting we have memory now let's put
a wiggly line here and thinking let's
put a wiggly line here because in fact
these this is a noun tests but thinking
and memory are actually functioning as
adjectives for this noun tests here so
they do not count just according to the
context they if you looked at them by
themselves you could say yes that's a
noun but here it's functioning or it's
playing a role as an adjective for tests
certainly is 70s is and research is so
in total we have 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 and
10 so how many did you get there because
that was out of 10 points let's move on
to the next one now I want you to
identify the pronouns
you
I probably should have given you the
hint before I gave you the time but
anyway so pronoun refers to a noun it's
a it's a funny word that we use to refer
to a noun like a computer is the noun
but I could say this or that or it for
example
anyway how many could you identify let's
go through and take a look so who is a
pronoun what else we got
those referring back to a noun another
who so we've got three and we've got
four here because there is also a
pronoun so we have four points for the
pronouns how are you going so far I use
struggling are you looking at this
paragraph and all you see a word and you
can't identify what they are of what
type of where they are don't worry at
the end of this video I'm going to show
you a solution which will really improve
your ability to identify work types but
also improve your grammar overall as
well which is cool let's keep going
though this is fun hopefully here we go
so how many verbs are there my hint for
this one is verbs think of words like do
does is doing what's doing has been
doing will do has no sort of do words
right indicating some sort of activity
or action or movement but also think
about those be verbs like is an R was
were etc there the other type of 30
seconds to count the verbs
you
okay let's take a look here how many
verbs can we spot so people who play
there's a nice verb games cards and
board games ah that's one of those funny
be verbs it's not really a doing verb
but it's a be verb so play are more
likely to stay mentally sharp in later
life a study suggests those who
regularly played now here's something
interesting here we have play and here
we have played see verbs are strange in
English because they change their form
to indicate a time this is essentially
the same verb
this one's indicating the past and this
one's indicating some sort of continual
thing that somebody does so those who
regularly played non-digital games
scored better on a memory and thinking
tests in their 70s the research found
cool so we've got one two three four
five six and seven points they're put
into the chat how many you got four
verbs and hopefully you're keeping a
tally of your overall score let's look
at adjectives now and my hint for
adjectives is that they describe some
thing they in other words they describe
a noun so have a look at this paragraph
look for the descriptions the
descriptive words how many can you find
you
okay let's count the adjectives now so
people who play games no descriptions
their cards and board games are more
there's one likely to stay mentally
sharp in later life a study suggests
those who regularly played non-digital
you can see it's describing that now in
their games non-digital games scored
better on memory and thinking tests
remember these ones are describing this
now and here's a memory test thinking
test in their 70s the research found so
all up we have 1 2 3 4 5 6 & 7
adjectives there so 7 points for
adjectives how many did you get
let's now find the adverbs I'll give you
a little hint this is pretty easy
most adverbs finished with an ly ending
like quickly or quietly so that will be
helpful here
you
okie-dokie you should have spotted three
adverbs here we have likely mentally and
regularly cool one two three that's
pretty straightforward okay so three
points for the adverbs let's move on to
the six word type prepositions we have
two more how many prepositions can you
find let me give you a little hint
prepositions are words like in of at too
far away from the indicate or signal
movement like a way or a cross for
example they indicate location on or Act
they also represent time as well like in
November or something like that yes see
how you go
you
okay so prepositions are typically short
words some can be long though people who
play games cards and board games are
more likely to is a preposition to stay
mentally sharp in life you say in life a
study suggests those who regularly play
non-digital games scored better on you
score on your test in the 1970s sorry
1970s in their 70s so all up we have
four points for prepositions how many
did you find there
let's now count the conjunctions and
conjunctions are words that join well
you can join two words together with a
conjunction two phrases or two full
sentences together with conjunctions
like glue if you like how many can you
find in this paragraph
you
okie-dokie in fact I didn't know about
you I could only find two you could see
cards and board games connecting these
two words here and memory and thinking
so in fact Artur and they were both the
and conjunction which is very common so
two points there okie-dokie the final
one are articles no hint here how many
articles can you find
you
okay so articles are words like ah and
and that so what do we got what do we
got what do we got what do we got we've
got AA study here we've got those who do
that so we have an indefinite article
here and we have a definite article here
so all up we have two points there four
articles so how many did you score out
of 39
did you add them all up please pop your
score below I'm just curious because as
I said I have a bit of a theory about
this so was it easy was it hard do you
feel like you need to improve your
ability to identify the different word
types in English because my suspicion is
that if you are able to do that you're
going to have better grammar you're
going to be more precise with your
language you're going to be able to
convey meaning more easily that's my
hypothesis anyway cool now let me show
you
whoops before you move on make sure you
subscribe to this YouTube channel
because it's awesome okay if you need
help with identifying the different word
types then check out this website called
e to school comm and sign up to our
course called grammar review it's easy
to learn there are expert teachers and
it is a hundred percent free you do not
have to pay any money for it and it's
pretty comprehensive let me show you how
it works okay so it's pretty cool
because what you do first is you've
watched a little video and while you're
watching the video you complete little
activities which help you to identify
the different word types for example and
then what you do which is really cool is
you apply your knowledge of the grammar
to various activities like listening for
example or reading so you go through and
you complete all of the activities here
cool I hope that was helpful if you need
any more help check out a to school comm
[Music]